Add step to drop plaintext columns (#13)
cipherstash/cipherstash-rails-demo-app: README.md

You will only ever see this credential once.
This is your personal key, and you should not share it.

Set these in your [Rails credentials](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html#custom-credentials) file:

```yaml
cipherstash:
  client_id:
  client_key:
```

Or set these as environment variables in a `.envrc` file using the below variable names:

```bash
export CS_CLIENT_KEY=
export CS_CLIENT_ID=
```

If you are using direnv run:

```bash
direnv allow
```

> Run:

Reviewer: What's the reason for removing the note about not using direnv here? The original text looks correct to me.

Alternatively, we could probably remove mentions of direnv in the demo and assume that the user knows how to set env vars. We could say "set these env vars" and let the user set them however they prefer.

Author: hmm, I think this may have been unintentional, as it doesn't read right. I was copying and pasting a bit over from the docs repo.

I think it's good to have it in there, trying to be helpful.

Author: I'll revert it back.

stash upload-config --file dataset.yml --client-id $CS_CLIENT_ID --client-key $CS_CLIENT_KEY
```

_NOTE:_

_The Rails demo app uses Active Admin, which uses a dependency called Ransack for the filters on the side of the dashboard view._

_So these filters continue to work when reading encrypted fields, the below needs to be added the Rails app._

Add this to the `patients.rb` file:

```ruby

> # app/admin/patients.rb

Reviewer: I'm starting to wonder if it'd be easier to check in some of these changes and include them from the starting point.

We could have some comments in the source files that explain some of the active admin details for those that are curious. That way we can highlight the important parts that are most relevant to the demo in the README and leave out some of the active admin tedium.

Reviewer 2: @CDThomas that's a really good point. Way easier to uncomment than copy-paste.

Author: @CDThomas @auxesis I thought of doing that, but if they try and run the string filters in `plaintext-duplicate` mode, they will not work. Because the custom functions we add, to keep the string filters working in encrypted-duplicate and encrypted mode, strip out the`%` from the LIKE queries.

Author: Oh, you mean just add it, but commented out?

Author: I'll add it into the demo, commented out with notes.

I'll need to add something in the README around it though, to point them to uncomment it.

Reviewer: > Oh, you mean just add it, but commented out?

Ah, I meant have any active-admin related code included in the project from the start (not commented out), but I didn't think about the `LIKE` query issues.

Commenting it out might work though.

I'm really tempted to get `LIKE` queries working for both `plaintext-duplicate` and `enrypted*` modes without editing files. If we don't want to deal with making the actual `LIKE` implementation more robust yet, I wonder if it'd be straightforward to handle it in the match indexer instead. We could add support for `char_filters` and strip out `%`s and `_`s or something.

Reviewer: > We could add support for char_filters and strip out `%`s and `_`s or something.

Since you added support for `ILIKE` that might mean that we wouldn't even need the custom active admin filter methods, too @fimac.

Author: We still need them, because the filters send through the ILIKE query with the `%`, so the match query won't work. So we need to intercept the query anyway, so we're sending through just the value. Unless i'm missing something with how the match query is implemented?

Author: > I'm really tempted to get `LIKE` queries working for both `plaintext-duplicate` and `enrypted*` modes without editing files. If we don't want to deal with making the actual `LIKE` implementation more robust yet, I wonder if it'd be straightforward to handle it in the match indexer instead. We could add support for `char_filters` and strip out `%`s and `_`s or something.

This would be ideal, well until we can do the actual LIKE/ILIKE implementation, I can create a card if there isn't one already?

Reviewer: `char_filter` support seems like something we could want in the long term anyway, so seems reasonable to me. It feels less hacky than stripping out lead/trailing `%`s in the driver code.

Maybe run it by James and/or Dan too and card it up if it sounds good to them. I don't think it'd be too hard to implement.

  filter :dob, as: :date_range
  filter :weight

  filter :full_name_filter,
  as: :string,
  label: 'Full name',
  filters: [:contains, :equals]

  filter :email_filter,
  as: :string,
  label: 'Email',
  filters: [:contains, :equals]

  filter :allergies_filter,
  as: :string,
  label: 'Allergies',
  filters: [:contains, :equals]

  filter :medications_filter,
  as: :string,
  label: 'Medications',
  filters: [:contains, :equals]
```

Add this to the Patient model `patient.rb`:

```ruby

>   def self.full_name_filter_contains(value)
> 
>     where("full_name LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.full_name_filter_equals(value)
> 
>     where(full_name: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.email_filter_contains(value)
> 
>     where("email LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.email_filter_equals(value)
> 
>     where(email: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.allergies_filter_contains(value)
> 
>     where("allergies LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.allergies_filter_equals(value)
> 
>     where(allergies: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.medications_filter_contains(value)
> 
>     where("medications LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end
> 
>   def self.medications_filter_equals(value)
> 
>     where(medications: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
>   end

Reviewer: Nit: these methods probably don't need the extra whitespace.
```suggestion
  def self.full_name_filter_contains(value)
    where("full_name LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.full_name_filter_equals(value)
    where(full_name: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.email_filter_contains(value)
    where("email LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.email_filter_equals(value)
    where(email: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.allergies_filter_contains(value)
    where("allergies LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.allergies_filter_equals(value)
    where(allergies: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.medications_filter_contains(value)
    where("medications LIKE ?", "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end

  def self.medications_filter_equals(value)
    where(medications: "#{sanitize_sql_like(value)}")
  end
```

![Patient Filters](./public/filters.png)

### Dropping plaintext columns

Once you are sure that everything is working correctly, update the column mode to `encrypted` mode in the `dataset.yml` file.

```yaml
mode: encrypted
```

Push this configration to CipherStash:

```bash
stash upload-config --file dataset.yml --client-id $CS_CLIENT_ID --client-key $CS_CLIENT_KEY
```

In this mode all data is encrypted and plaintext columns are completely ignored.

Once you have verified that everything is working, you can create a migration that drops the original columns.

Generate another Rails migration:

```bash
rails generate migration DropPlaintextColumnsFromPatientsTable
```

And add the following code:

```ruby
class DropPlaintextColumnsFromPatientsTable < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.0]
  def change
    remove_column :patients, :full_name
    remove_column :patients, :email
    remove_column :patients, :dob
    remove_column :patients, :weight
    remove_column :patients, :allergies
    remove_column :patients, :medications
  end
end
```

> **Warning**
>
> **Once you remove the plaintext columns, anything that hasn't been encrypted will be lost.**
>

> > Before you run the remove column step, it is very important that you:

Reviewer: Nit: phrasing
```suggestion
> Before you drop plaintext columns in a real-world application, it is very important that you:
```
